# DNS_And_Routing_Win_Server_19
Step 5
Next you will install active directory domain services. In the server manager select add roles and features click next until you get to server selection select there should only be one server on the list select it and click next under select server roles select active directory domain services click next through to the install button. In the top right there will be a yellow trouble flag in notifications. click it then select promote the server to a domain contoller. check add new forest name it whatever you want then click next. create a password you'll remember click next. As the following screens auto populate click next until you reach the install screen then click install. The VM will restart. 

Step 6
Next you will create an domain admin account for youself. Click the start menu go to windows administrative tools and select active director users and computers. You should be able to see your domain. Right click scroll to new and select organizational unit. Label the group admin you can uncheck the box that prevents container from accidental deletion. Right click on the folder once created, scroll to new and select user. You can name the user account what ever you want. some common naming conventions are first.last name or first intial and last name. Create a password you'll remember for this account. there are some useful password options on this screen but since this is a lab environment you can select password never expires. Once created right click the new user and select properties. Select the member of tab and click add. Type domain admins and click check then click ok. then click ok again to close the dialog box. Log out, select other user, and log in using your newly created admin account.


Step 7
 Next you'll set up a remote access server for network address translation. this is going to allow the clients on the virtual private network to accesss the internet through this VM. In the server manager select add roles and features click next until you get to server selection select there should only be one server on the list select it and click next under select server roles select remote access. click next then under role services select routing. click next through to install. when the install is complete click the tool drop down in the top right corner and select routing and remote access. Right click you devices name and select configure and enable routing and remote access. check Network Address Translation (NAT) then click next select *use the public interface to connect to the internet. Select the network adapter with the internet connection. *if its greyed out, close the dialog box and start again from selecting routing and remote access from the tools menu. click next then finish

Step 8
Next you'll set up a DHCP which will all allow other windows clients to get and IP address from the Domain Controller. This will allow those clients to connect to and browse the internet. In the server manager select add roles and features. Select DHCP under Server Roles then click next through to install. From the tools dropdown select DHCP. Click the arrow next to your server and right click the IPv4 and select New Scope. Name the scope what ever you want. Start IP 172.16.0.100 End IP 172.16.0.200 length CIDR 24 will and Mask of 255.255.255.0. don't need to add exclusions. Do this if there would be device you waned to manual set the IP address for. Lease duration in this lab you can set the days as high as you want. This sets how long your device will have a certain IP before it needs to be renewed through the DHCP server. DC will serve as the router(default gateway) so use the DC IP address 172.16.0.1 and click Add then Next all the way through to finish. Once complete right click your server and select Authorize.
